#summary Some thoughts on the Tracking-Data and metadata

= General =

We have following hierarchy:
 * a *Track* is a "session", it contains a set of POI's, Ways, Areas and Media the user collects in one or multiple app-uses.
 * *Media* are textmemos, photos, audiorecordings that help to remember things
 * *POI*'s are a gps-node with certain tags
 * *Ways* are a list of gps-nodes with certain tags. Mind that the list can have some specially tagged nodes like traffic lights and barriers.
 * *Areas* are closed Ways.

= Dataformat = 

All data have a unique id.

== Node ==

In general every node we get from the gps has:
  * latitude
  * longitude
  * timestamp

These are the data every node has at a minimum.
There are also the data a Node in osm xml format has.
Additionally osm-nodes have tags.

The dataformat for all these metadata according to osm-specificaion is:
  * latitude: Interval `[`-90, 90`]`, 7 digits precision => float
  * longitude: Interval `[`-180, 180`]`, 7 digits precision => float
  * timestamp: http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime
  * tags: key (k) and value (v) are Strings: `<tag k="str" v="str" />`

== Way ==

Ways are a list of Nodes + Timestamp + Tags according to osm format.

== Areas ==

Areas are in osm simply Ways with a landuse-tag and possibly a area=yes-tag

= Implementation =

The User should be able to:
 * Start/End a Way
 * Add a special point to the currently tracked way. (Should only be usable if there is a Way which is currently tracked)
 * Create a POI
 * Start/End an Area
 * Record Media (photos, audio recordings, text) and then assign it to one or more previously created POI's or Ways or Areas

On the devices memory there is a folder which contains all data.
Each track gets a folder. In this folder all Media are saved plus the way data (POI, Way, Area).

= Operations =

 * Get a list of all Tracks (URI-path: /all_tracks)
 * Delete a Track (URI-path: /delete_track/number)
 * Get all Ways, Areas, POI's, Media of a Track as Names/Id (URI-path: /track/number)
 * Get a Way (URI-path: /way/number)
 * Get an Area (URI-path: /area/number)
 * Get a POI's (URI-path: /poi/number)
 * Get Media info (URI-path: /media/name)
 * Get Nodes of a Way (URI-path: /way_nodes)
 * Get Nodes of a Area (URI-path: /area_nodes)